Our scripture here, Isaiah 64 verse 8, clearly establishes that Jehovah God is the potter,
the great potter in fact, and we are the clay.
Now, in what way is he molding us?
Well one way is through adjusting our Christian personality.
Now how does he do that?
Well he uses his word, the Bible, his Holy Spirit, and the Christian congregation.
So what we're going to do is to talk about how Jehovah helps to mold our personality.
What's the process that's used?
We're going to talk about two aspects of the Christian personality, humility and kindness.
So we said one way Jehovah uses to mold our personality as his word, the Bible.
And Hebrews chapter 4 verse 12 says that God's word has tremendous power.
So we take individual scriptures as we are reading it, we look at our own personality.
What does it say about me?
How can I improve?
Let's take an example of humility.
We're going to go to Philippians chapter 2 verses 3 and 4.
We see how this is a powerful aid to us.
Here's what we should do, Philippians 2, 3 and 4.
Do nothing out of contentiousness or out of egotism, but with humility consider others
superior to you.
As you look, not only for your own interests, but also for the interests of others.
So when we read the scripture, we look at ourselves and say, well, how am I doing in this?
Do I see that I have made progress, especially if this has been an issue in the past?
Is Jehovah somehow nudging me, adjusting me, molding me by means of this powerful scripture?
Ask ourselves, humility, am I the person that always seems to be in charge?
Do I give across that attitude to others?
Or as it says here, do I view others as superior, maybe even saying, I admit that that sister
has more patience than I have, or that brother is really a better teacher than I am.
So you see by the means of individual scriptures, Jehovah God can help to mold our thinking.
Now in addition to the individual scripture, the Bible also provides examples of that
quality in action.
And so the Watchtower comment for today uses Christ Jesus as an example in humility.
Let's open to that scripture.
It's referred to as Luke chapter 22.
And as we read the account, we think, you know, what can I learn?
How did he handle it?
How can I apply it?
So 22, 24, does took place the evening before his death.
It says, however, there also arose a heated dispute among them over which one of them was considered
to be the greatest.
Well, automatically we see there's a problem of humility here.
Well, so let's move down now to verses 26 and 27.
He says, you though, are not to be that way, but let the one who is the greatest among you
become as the youngest and the one taking the lead as the one ministering for which one is
greater.
The one dining or the one serving.
Is it not the one dining?
But I am among you as the one serving.
Now these were not just words because the apostles had seen three and a half years of
beautiful example of Jesus serving others, truly a humble man.
And through our Bible reading too, we've seen this example of humility that we can apply
so it's good for us to ask ourselves, am I a proud person?
Do I give off that impression to others?
Do I view myself as one dining or as one serving?
Well, another way that Jehovah uses to mold our Christian personality is the Holy Spirit.
Now how does that work?
If you look at Galatians chapter 5, in verse 19, it talks about the works of the flesh.
And then in verse 22, it refers to the fruitage of the Spirit.
Work to the flesh, fruitage of the Spirit.
Now work, work, it's a result of what one does.
It's the product of your actions.
And so the Apostle Paul list, as you see there under works of the flesh, various results
that come as a result of a conscious effort on an individual's part are possibly because of
human imperfection.
But on the other hand, Paul talks about the fruitage of the Spirit, not work, but the fruitage
it results in.
And this is implying that qualities that are listed there as fruitage of the Spirit
are not the result of some sort of program we get into to adjust our character.
But it's the operation of God's Spirit upon the individual.
It's this tremendous force and power from Jehovah God that moves us in certain ways,
it may be to recognize Scripture, to listen to counsel.
Yes, we need to pray for his Holy Spirit so we can develop those Christian qualities that Paul
mentions. So when you look at verse 22, one of those qualities is kindness.
How important is that for the Christian personality?
So when the great potter looks at us, does he see a need for adjustments in the way
we display kindness to others? So are we praying to Jehovah God?
Please, Jehovah, help me develop this fruitage of the Spirit.
Here again, the Bible gives examples of individuals that had kindness.
It's the quality and action, so to speak.
And in this case, Jehovah God, of course, is the greatest example.
Here it is. In Genesis chapter 3, it describes in verse 7 that after Adam and Eve ate the fruit,
then they recognize their nakedness. So what do they do? They sew fig leaves together as clothing.
But now in verse 21, before putting them out of the garden of Eden into the thorns and
thistles, what did Jehovah do? What says he made long garments out of skin to clothe them?
Now that's the ultimate of kindness. See, we want to allow these examples
to touch us in ways that moves us to be kind to others.
Now, one benefit of kindness is that people are drawn to that kind of person.
A Proverbs 11 verse 17 says this,
a kind man benefits himself.
It's enjoyable being around a kind person, isn't it? A kind person easily finds and keeps
good friends. Now the ministry of school textbook says that one who is kind and mild tempered
is gentle in his way of doing things. Now under the chapter voice quality, here's what it says,
people are greatly influenced by not only by what is said, but also by how it is said.
If a person speaking to you has a voice that is pleasant, warm, friendly and kind,
is it not true that you're more inclined to listen favorably? Most certainly it is.
And I might say the November study edition of the Watchtower, we just received,
has a beautiful article in it entitled Kindness, a quality expressed in word and action.
So when it comes to our Christian personality, especially involving humility and kindness,
as we've talked about today, may each of us respond to the molding of Jehovah God. He uses his
word, the Bible, and he uses his Holy Spirit. Now we also said, Jehovah uses the congregation.
So may we all be responsive to counsel that we receive either from the platform or maybe
individual counsel to improve in these areas. And if we respond correctly, then we can say,
as recorded in Isaiah 64, 8, but now, O Jehovah, you are our Father, we are the clay, and you are our
Father, we are all the work of your hand.